<P>China’s power battery <B style="color:red">sector</B> has developed rapidly in recent years, with <b style="color: red;">domestic</b> companies <b style="color: red;">dominating</b> the global power battery market thanks to its technological advances, according to a research firm.</P>
<P>Compared with the rest of the world, China’s power battery market is more <b style="color: red;">mature</b> with lower production costs and higher <b style="color: red;">volumes</b>, according to an analysis by <b style="color: rgb(255, 238, 0);">BloombergNEF</b>.</P>
<P>Average battery pack prices have been the lowest in China at $126 per <b style="color: red;">kilowatt-hour</b> amid intense price competition, as battery manufacturers <b style="color: red;">ramp</b> up production capacity.</P>
<P>China has seen many <b style="color: red;">breakthroughs</b> in battery materials and electric <b style="color: red;">vehicle</b> technology applications in recent years. It has the world’s largest battery manufacturing value <b style="color: red;">chain</b>, from material research and development, battery production and recycling to equipment support.</P>
<P>At the same time, China has formed a relatively complete EV manufacturing supply chain, with about 70 percent of global battery production <b style="color: red;">capacity</b> located in the country, according to China EV100, a <b style="color: rgb(255, 238, 0);">think tank</b> on EVs.</P>
<P>BloombergNEF expects continued <b style="color: red;">investment</b> in research and development, manufacturing process improvements and capacity expansion across the supply chain to further improve battery technology and reduce costs over the next decade.</P>
<P>Next-generation technologies, such as those applied in silicon and <b style="color: red;">lithium</b> metal <b style="color: red;">anodes</b>, and solid-state electrolytes, will play an important role in enabling further price reductions, it added.</P>
<P>Many Chinese battery makers are already <b style="color: red;">charting</b> global expansion plans. Gotion Inc <b style="color: red;">unveiled</b> plans to set up a $2 billion EV lithium battery manufacturing plant in Illinois in the United States. Located in Manteno, the facility is expected to produce 10 <b style="color: red;">gigawatt-hours</b> of lithium-ion battery packs and 40 GWh of lithiumion battery cells a year when it begins production next year, said the Anhui province-based company.</P>
<P>Wu Wei, an assistant professor at the China <b style="color: red;">Institute</b> for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said he believes the trend of seeking overseas expansion will further drive up China's share in the global battery market.</P>
<P>BloombergNEF expects battery prices to decline in the next few years, primarily due to significant growth in capacity at various points in the value chain, coupled with weaker-than-expected demand.</P>
<P>Despite the numerous trade barriers and comparatively high costs abroad in recent years, Wu said expanding business overseas is still important for Chinese battery firms.</P>
<P>Domestic market scale is necessary to ensure cost-effectiveness advantages brought by economies of scale, while domestic companies should also step up investments in new technologies to ensure they remain technologically advanced amid future transformations, he said.</P>