
<P>December came again-that time of the year when people write their year-end work summary, mandatory in many Chinese companies.  It is standard practice for human resources departments at many enterprises to ask workers to make a self-assessment of their performance over the past 12 months. Such reports help assess employees while deciding whether and what pay hikes and bonus they will receive. Though a lot hinges on that summary, some employees might find it easier to write it this year, as many are turning to artificial intelligence to provide a helping hand. </P>
<p>Reports show that online searches for "year-end work summary and AI" have surged over the past few weeks. Actually, over the past year, a large number of people around the world have been using AI to write essays, create resumes and presentations and many other kinds of files. </P>
<p>The development of AI technology should be appreciated, because it is a crystallization of human creativity. 
However, it may not be a good idea to write year-end summaries using AI. No doubt, it saves time, but it will turn one's highly personalized assessment into a formal one. That is not a good thing considering that it has a bearing on one's career development. </P>
<p>During the writing process, AI can be used to enrich one's vocabulary, thus improving the quality of content. However, it is only a tool and cannot become the "subject" itself. Otherwise, it is akin to putting the cart before the horse. </P>
<p>It is also worth noting that some enterprises only focus on the paperwork rather than the ability of employees. This is a loophole that employees exploit when they turn to AI to generate a flowery year-end work summary. Both employers and employees should understand that the year-end work summaries, PPTs and any other work documents should, instead, reflect the writers' original ideas. </P>
<p>Actually, whether it is acceptable to write summaries or essays using AI is just the tip of the iceberg on discussions concerning use of the technology. It is more important to define the rules and boundaries governing AI products. In other words, we have to clarify where and when the technology should be applied because the wave of AI cannot be stopped. </P>
<p>For example, the risk of being rendered redundant from AI has been highlighted for a long time. Technology has long been the giver and taker of jobs.  In the past, it has helped create more jobs. Current businesses plan to train new employees and existing staff members by using AI and other automated systems. The fear among people that AI could replace them might still hold merit. But what we are seeing at the moment is a deepening of the partnership between humans and digital technology. </P>
<p>After all, the future of AI is bright, and with the right approach, people can benefit from the advancement in AI technology while also tackling its challenges. </P>